# Project 2 Iowa Liquor

**Introduction:** This project focuses on forecasting the top 5 locations to open a new liquor store by the city and zip-code. Also, the linear regression models with cross-validation were used to predict 2016 1st quarter sale by using the previous sales quarters.

**Data cleaning:** The process of data cleaning starts by checking the data information to observe overall dataset size, check which columns need to be reassigned or renamed. All columns that contain numerical values that are in string format was converted into float (State Bottle Cost, State Bottle Retail, Sale (Dollars)). Also, a column that contains numerical values that represent store locations were converted into string format (Store Number). Lastly, all missing values were dropped since overall missing data was fairly small compared to the overall dataset.

**Feature Engineering:** The month and year columns were created from Date column by using the DateTime function. In addition, column profit was created by subtracting the overall state bottle retail and state bottle cost columns. Moreover, the margin column was created by dividing the profit and the State bottle retail which was 33%. Lastly, each quarter sales columns were created for the year 2015 and 2016 by using the month column to distinguish each quarter.

**Exploratory Data Analysis:** Data distribution for all sales, bottles sold, and volume sold is heavily skewed positively. Also, the vast majority of all sales are less than $500, bottles sold are less than 100 bottles, and volume sold in liter are less than 60 Liter. By using the feature engineered columns, the annual sales trend shows that the sales peak during the major holidays month October, December and November. On the other hand, using group-by filtering method, the top 5 cities with the highest profit were Des Moines, Cedar Rapids. Davenport, Iowa City, and Waterloo. For zip-code, 50010, 50314, 50320, 52240, and 52402. For store number, 2512, 2633, 3385, 3420 and 4829. Lastly, profit and all quarter sales heat map result shows that there are weak positive correlations between profit and all quarters. However, all 2015 quarter sales show very strong correlation with the 1st quarter sale for 2016.

**Modeling:** By building many linear regression models with cross-validation, the best model score accuracy was 86% by using all previous 2015 sales result to predict 2016 sales result. Interestingly, just by using the 3rd quarter sales result in 2015 was able to predict 2016 1st quarter sales result at 85% accuracy.

**Conclusion:** In conclusion, liquor business in Iowa has 33% margin and best location to open a new store is in Des Monies with a zip-code 50320 or 50314, Iowa City with a zip-code 52240, Cedar Rapids with a zip-code 52402. According to wealth.mogabay.com, and newsmax.com, the top wealthiest and largest cities are Des Moines, Cedar Rapids, Davenport, Waterloo, Iowa City, and Council Bluffs.By opening the new store in wealthiest or biggest city in Iowa will impact the overall retail business since demographic plays a big roll in any retail businesses. If the new liquor store is located inside the high GDP-per-capita area, it certainly will generate higher sales than other stores because customers have high-income status and willing to spend more at the store.

Lastly, the 2016 sales can be forecasted by using the overall or 3rd quarter sale result from 2015. The prediction result was expected since both are highly correlated. An additional source of data such as demographic income data could be used as a feature to generate a more interesting analysis.
